Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer or computing device to perform




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
Java Runtime Environment (JRE),
an interpreter/loader (java),
a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar),
a documentation generator




What is IDE?
A.
intergrated development environment


What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.intellij

eclipse


Explain the entire java life cycle.
what is class?a template for creating objects

What is object? set of properties and methods.

What is the entry point of an application? the main method.

Why main is static?
allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined.

Which class is the superclass of all classes? objects

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
path is environment variable. to find executables. Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
an abstract class is an incomplete class (incomplete in the sense it contains abstract methods without body and output

what is Access Specifier? specify access level.
private wthin class., default only within package., protected within the package.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP. object oriented programing.
They are an abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
abstraction using simple things to represent complexity.
This is the practice of keeping fields within a class private
ets programmers create new classes that share some of the attributes of existing classes
method overloading. That’s when different meanings are implied by the code itself. The other form is method overriding. That’s when the different meanings are implied by the values of the supplied variables

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default? java  defineed source file
ava.lang package, no name package,  amespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. Conceptually you can think of packages as being similar to different folders on your computer
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Java application programming interface (API) is a list of all classes that are part of the Java development kit

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
No, Java Does not support multiple inheritance because it creates confusion and complexity. To avoid ambiguity error java does not support multiple inheritance through class. But through the interface, multiple inheritance is possible in java.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method
having the same name, if their argument lists are different. It is similar to constructor
overloading in Java, that allows a class to have more than one constructor having different argument lists.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
managed via five keywords: try, catch, throw, throws, and finally. ...
Any exception that is thrown out of a method must be specified as such by a
throws clause. Any code that absolutely must be executed after a try block completes is put in a finally block.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
tatic keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly. We can apply java static k
eyword with variables, methods, blocks and nested class. The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
inal is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class
When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.

What is final, finally and finalize?
final is can'tbe modified. finally is used in association with a try/catch block and guarantees
that a section of code will be executed, even if an exception is thrown.
The finally block will be executed after the try and catch blocks, but before control transfers back to its origin.
The java.lang.Object.finalize() is called by the garbage collector on an object when garbage collection determines that there are no more references to the object

What is a constructor ?
a block of code that initialize an object.

What is "this" keyword in java ?reference variable in Java that refers to the current object

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?is used to refer
immediate parent class instance variable. We can use super keyword to access the data member
or field of parent class. It is used if parent class and child class have same fields.

What is JVM stand for ?
java vertual machine.

Is JVM platform independent?Different JVM is designed for different OS
and byte code is able to run on different OS

What version of java are you using?
verion 12

What is JAR stand for ?

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
DK is for development purpose whereas JRE is for running the java programs

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide runtime
environment.It is the implementation of JVM.It physically
 exists.It contains set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime

What is compile time and run time?
Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered
is converted to executable while Run-time is the instance where the executable is running

What is heap?
an area of prereserved computer main storage memory that a program process can use

How java manage it's memory?
JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory
(this includes allocating memory from the Operating System (OS), managing Java allocation including heap

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String class is an immutable class whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutabl

What is Singleton class?
there can only be one instance of the class.


What is Serialization and Deserialization?
a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a d
isk or database or can be sent through streams.
The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is deserialization

when to use transient variable in java?
variables modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization, if we don't want t
o save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword. When JVM comes across transient keyword,
it ignores original value of the variable and save default value of that variable data type

ifference between while and do..while loop?
while loop executes atleast once.

What is Enum? special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants


What is Iterator? an object that represents a stream of data

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
int is a primitive data type while Integer is a Wrapper class. I think integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation

what is JIT stands for? Just in time (JIT) is an inventory management method whereby materials, goods, and labor are scheduled
to arrive or be replenished exactly when needed in the production process
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM
starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes
full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection
objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
You don't need to invoke garbage collection. the jvm does it automatically.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
the stack is use to store variables and function calls. heap is use to store objects.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful? an API that is used to examine or modify
the behaviour of method.invoke methods at runtime irrespective of the access modifier
what is multithreading in java? process of executing multiple threads simultaneosly.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework? large body of code in which you add you own code to solve a problem.
What are the testing Framework available in java? JTest,The Grinder, TestNG, JUnit, JWalk, Mockito, Powermock
Difference between jUnit and testNG? TestNG is inspired by JUnit and is designed to be better than JUnit,
especially when testing integrated classes
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
is a technique whereby one object (or static method) supplies the dependencies
of another object.
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime. private , final and static methods and variables use static binding and are bonded by compiler while virtual methods are bonded during runtime based upon runtime object.









